doc/Functions.md, before:

# Functions
**Contents**
- [Callable](#Callable)
  - [compose](#compose)
  - [partial and partialLeft](#partial-and-partialLeft)
  - [partialRight](#partialRight)
- [Cast](#Cast)
  - [asArray](#asArray)
  - [asBool](#asBool)
  - [asFloat](#asFloat)
  - [asInt](#asInt)
  - [asList](#asList)
  - [asNonEmptyArray](#asNonEmptyArray)
  - [asNonEmptyList](#asNonEmptyList)
- [Collection](#Collection)
  - [any](#any)
  - [anyOf](#anyOf)
  - [at](#at)
  - [every](#every)
  - [everyOf](#everyOf)
  - [filter](#filter)
  - [filterNotNull](#filterNotNull)
  - [filterOf](#filterOf)
  - [first](#first)
  - [firstOf](#firstOf)
  - [flatMap](#flatMap)
  - [fold](#fold)
  - [group](#group)
  - [head](#head)
  - [isSequence](#isSequence)
  - [isNonEmptySequence](#isNonEmptySequence)
  - [keys](#keys)
  - [last](#last)
  - [map](#map)
  - [partition](#partition)
  - [partitionOf](#partitionOf)
  - [pluck](#pluck)
  - [pop](#pop)
  - [reduce](#reduce)
  - [reverse](#reverse)
  - [second](#second)
  - [shift](#shift)
  - [tail](#tail)
  - [unique](#unique)
  - [reindex](#reindex)
  - [zip](#zip)
- [Evidence](#Evidence)
  - [proveArray](#proveArray)
  - [proveNonEmptyArray](#proveNonEmptyArray)
  - [proveArrayOf](#proveArrayOf)
  - [proveNonEmptyArrayOf](#proveNonEmptyArrayOf)
  - [proveList](#proveList)
  - [proveNonEmptyList](#proveNonEmptyList)
  - [proveListOf](#proveListOf)
  - [proveNonEmptyListOf](#proveNonEmptyListOf)
  - [proveBool](#proveBool)
  - [proveTrue](#proveTrue)
  - [proveFalse](#proveFalse)
  - [proveString](#proveString)
  - [proveNonEmptyString](#proveNonEmptyString)
  - [proveCallableString](#proveCallableString)
  - [proveClassString](#proveClassString)
  - [proveFloat](#proveFloat)
  - [proveInt](#proveInt)
  - [proveOf](#proveOf)
- [Json](#Json)
  - [jsonDecode](#jsonDecode)
  - [jsonSearch](#jsonSearch)
- [Reflection](#Reflection)
  - [getNamedTypes](#getNamedTypes)
  - [getReflectionProperty](#getReflectionProperty)
  - [getReflectionClass](#getReflectionClass)

# Callable

  - #### compose
    
    Compose functions. Output of one function will be passed as input to
    another function
    
    ``` php
    $aToB = fn(int $a): bool => true;
    $bToC = fn(bool $b): string => (string) $b;
    $cTod = fn(string $c): float => (float) $c;
    
    /** @var callable(int): float $result */
    $result = compose($aToB, $bToC, $cTod);
    ```

  - #### partial and partialLeft
    
    Partial application from first function argument
    
    ``` php
    $callback = fn(int $a, string $b, bool $c): bool => true;
    
    /** @var callable(bool): bool $result */
    $result = partial($callback, 1, "string");
    
    /** @var callable(bool): bool $result */
    $result = partialLeft($callback, 1, "string");
    ```

  - #### partialRight
    
    Partial application from last function argument
    
    ``` php
    $callback = fn(int $a, string $b, bool $c): bool => true;
    
    /** @var callable(int): bool $result */
    $result = partialRight($callback, true, "string");
    ```

# Cast

  - #### asArray
    
    Copy collection as array
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var array<string, int> $result */
    $result = asArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### asBool
    
    Try cast boolean like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<bool> $result */
    $result = asBool('yes');
    ```

  - #### asFloat
    
    Try cast float like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<float> $result */
    $result = asFloat('1.1');
    ```

  - #### asInt
    
    Try cast integer like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = asInt(1);
    ```

  - #### asList
    
    Copy one or multiple collections as list
    
    ``` php
    $result = asList([1], ['prop' => 2], [3, 4]); // [1, 2, 3, 4]
    ```

  - #### asNonEmptyArray
    
    Try copy and cast collection to non-empty-array. Returns None if
    there is no first collection element
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = asNonEmptyArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### asNonEmptyList
    
    Try copy and cast collection to non-empty-list. Returns None if
    there is no first collection element
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<int>> $result */
    $result = asNonEmptyList(getCollection());
    ```

# Collection

  - #### any
    
    Returns true if there is collection element which satisfies the
    condition and false otherwise
    
    ``` php
    any(
      [1, 2, 3],
      fn(int $value): bool => $value === 2 
    ); // true
    ```

  - #### anyOf
    
    Returns true if there is collection element of given class and false
    otherwise
    
    ``` php
    anyOf([new Foo(), 2, 3], Foo::class); // true
    ```

  - #### at
    
    Find element by it's key
    
    O(1) for arrays and classes which implement ArrayAccess. O(N) for
    other cases
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo|int> $result */
    $result = at([new Foo(), 2, 3], 1);
    ```

  - #### every
    
    Returns true if every collection element satisfies the condition and
    false otherwise
    
    ``` php
    every([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 1); // false
    ```

  - #### everyOf
    
    Returns true if every collection element is of given class false
    otherwise
    
    ``` php
    everyOf([1, new Foo()], Foo::class); // false
    ```

  - #### filter
    
    Filter collection by condition. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    filter([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 2); // [1 => 2]
    ```

  - #### filterNotNull
    
    Filter not null elements. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    filterNotNull([1, null, 2]); // [0 => 1, 2 => 2]
    ```

  - #### filterOf
    
    Filter elements of given class. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    /** @var array<0|1|2, Foo> $result */
    $result = filterOf([1, new Foo(), 2], Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### first
    
    Find first element which satisfies the condition
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = first([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 2);
    ```

  - #### firstOf
    
    Find first element of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo> $result */
    $result = firstOf([1, new Foo(1), new Foo(2)], Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### flatMap
    
    Flat map Consists of map and flatten operations
    
    ``` php
    /**
     * 1) map [1, 4] to [[0, 1, 2], [3, 4, 5]]
     * 2) flatten [[0, 1, 2], [3, 4, 5]] to [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
     */
    flatMap([1, 4], fn(int $x) => [$x - 1, $x, $x + 1]); // [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
    ```

  - #### fold
    
    Fold many elements into one
    
    ``` php
    fold(
      '', 
      ['a', 'b', 'c'], 
      fn(string $accumulator, $currentValue) => $accumulator . $currentValue
    ); 
    
    // 'abc'
    ```

  - #### group
    
    Group collection elements by key returned by function
    
    ``` php
    group( 
      [1, 2, 3], 
      fn(int $v): int => $v
    ); 
    
    // [1 => [1], 2 => [2], 3 => [3]]
    ```

  - #### head
    
    Returns collection first element
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = head([1, 2, 3]); 
    ```

  - #### isSequence
    
    Check if collection is ascending or descending integer sequence from
    given start value
    
    ``` php
    isSequence([1, 2, 3]); // false
    isSequence([0, 1, 2, 3]); // true 
    isSequence([]); // true 
    ```

  - #### isNonEmptySequence
    
    Check if collection is non empty ascending or descending integer
    sequence from given start value
    
    ``` php
    isNonEmptySequence([1, 2, 3]); // false
    isNonEmptySequence([0, 1, 2, 3]); // true
    isNonEmptySequence([]); // false 
    ```

  - #### keys
    
    Returns list of collection keys
    
    ``` php
    keys(['a' => 1, 'b' => 2]); // ['a', 'b']
    ```

  - #### last
    
    Returns last collection element and None if there is no last element
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = last([1, 2, 3]);
    ```

  - #### map
    
    Map collection values into new collection. Keys are preserved
    
    ``` php
    map([1, 2, 3], fn(int $v) => (string) $v); // ['1', '2', '3']
    ```

  - #### partition
    
    Divide collection by given conditions
    
    ``` php
    partition(
      ['a' => 1, 'b' => 2],
      fn(int $x) => $x % 2 === 0 
    );
    
    // [['b' => 2], ['a' => 1]]
    ```

  - #### partitionOf
    
    Divide collection by given classes
    
    ``` php
    /** @var array{list<Foo>, list<Bar>, list<Foo|Bar>} $result */
    $result = partitionOf(
      [new Foo(), new Bar()],
      Foo::class,
      Bar::class 
    );
    
    // [[$foo], [$bar], []]
    ```

  - #### pluck
    
    Map every collection element into given property/key value
    
    ``` php
    pluck([['a' => 1], ['a' => 2]], 'a'); // [1, 2]   
    ```

  - #### pop
    
    Pop last collection element and return tuple containing this element
    and other collection elements. If there is no last element then
    returns None
    
    ``` php
    [$head, $tail] = pop([[1, 2, 3]]); // [3, [1, 2]]   
    ```

  - #### reduce
    
    Reduce multiple elements into one. Returns None for empty collection
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<string> $option */
    $option = reduce(
      ['a', 'b', 'c'], 
      fn(string $accumulator, string $currentValue) => $accumulator . $currentValue
    ); 
    
    $option->get(); // 'abc'
    ```

  - #### reverse
    
    Copy collection in reversed order
    
    ``` php
    reverse([[1, 2, 3]]); // [3, 2, 1]   
    ```

  - #### second
    
    Returns second collection element. None if there is no second
    collection element
    
    ``` php
    second([[1, 2, 3]])->get(); // 2   
    ```

  - #### shift
    
    Shift first collection element and return tuple containing this
    element and other collection elements. If there is no first element
    then returns None
    
    ``` php
    [$head, $tail] = shift([[1, 2, 3]]); // [1, [2, 3]]   
    ```

  - #### tail
    
    Returns every collection element except first
    
    ``` php
    tail([[1, 2, 3]]); // [2, 3]   
    ```

  - #### unique
    
    Returns unique collection elements
    
    ``` php
    unique([[1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3]]); // [1, 2, 3]   
    ```

  - #### reindex
    
    Produces a new array of elements by assigning the values to keys
    generated by a transformation function (callback).
    
    ``` php
    reindex([1, 'a' => 2], fn (int $value) => $value); // [1 => 1, 2 => 2]
    ```

  - #### zip
    
    Returns a iterable collection formed from this iterable collection
    and another iterable collection by combining corresponding elements
    in pairs.
    
    If one of the two collections is longer than the other, its
    remaining elements are ignored.
    
    ``` php
    zip([1, 2, 3], ['a', 'b']); // [[1, 'a'], [2, 'b']]
    ```

# Evidence

  - #### proveArray
    
    Prove that given collection is of array type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyArray
    
    Prove that given collection is of non-empty-array type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveArrayOf
    
    Prove that collection is of array type and every element is of given
    class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<array<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveArrayOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyArrayOf
    
    Prove that collection is of non-empty-array type and every element
    is of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyArrayOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveList
    
    Prove that given collection is of list type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<list<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveList(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyList
    
    Prove that given collection is of non-empty-list type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyList(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveListOf
    
    Prove that collection is of array type and every element is of given
    class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<list<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveListOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyListOf
    
    Prove that collection is of non-empty-list type and every element is
    of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyListOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveBool
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<bool> $result */
    $result = proveBool($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveTrue
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type and it's value is true
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<true> $result */
    $result = proveTrue($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveFalse
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type and it's value is false
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<false> $result */
    $result = proveFalse($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveString
    
    Prove that subject is of string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<string> $result */
    $result = proveString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyString
    
    Prove that subject is of given class
    
    ``` php
    $possiblyEmptyString = '';
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-string> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyString($possiblyEmptyString);
    ```

  - #### proveCallableString
    
    Prove that subject is of callable-string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<callable-string> $result */
    $result = proveCallableString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveClassString
    
    Prove that subject is of class-string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<class-string> $result */
    $result = proveClassString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveFloat
    
    Prove that subject is of float type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<float> $result */
    $result = proveFloat($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveInt
    
    Prove that subject is of int type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = proveInt($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveOf
    
    Prove that subject is of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo> $result */
    $result = proveOf(new Bar(), Foo::class);
    ```

# Json

  - #### jsonDecode
    
    Decode json string into associative array. Returns Left on error
    
    ``` php
    jsonDecode('{"a": [{"b": true}]}')->get(); // ['a' => [['b' => true]]] 
    ```

  - #### jsonSearch
    
    Search by JsonPath expression. Returns None if there is no data by
    given expression. @see jmespath
    
    ``` php
    jsonSearch('a[0].b', ['a' => [['b' => true]]]); // true
    jsonSearch('a[0].b', '{"a": [{"b": true}]}'); // true
    ```

# Reflection

  - #### getNamedTypes
    
    Returns property types by property reflection
    
    ``` php
    $fooProp = new ReflectionProperty(Foo::class, 'a');
    
    /** @var list<ReflectionNamedType> $result */
    $result = getNamedTypes($fooProp); 
    ```

  - #### getReflectionProperty
    
    Returns property reflection or Left on exception
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Either<ReflectionException, ReflectionProperty> $result */
    $result = getReflectionProperty(Foo::class, 'a'); 
    ```

  - #### getReflectionClass
    
    Returns class reflection or Left on exception
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Either<ReflectionException, ReflectionClass> $result */
    $result = getReflectionClass(Foo::class); 
    ```

Commit message:

Release 2.0.0
- Monads refactoring. It's allowed to pass nullable values.
- Improved type inference.
- Option map refactoring. Monadic effects are not allowed in map now.
- Function copyCollection drop.
- Zip, Reindex, Exists, Unique functions have been added.

doc/Functions.md, after:

# Functions
**Contents**
- [Callable](#Callable)
  - [compose](#compose)
  - [partial and partialLeft](#partial-and-partialLeft)
  - [partialRight](#partialRight)
- [Cast](#Cast)
  - [asArray](#asArray)
  - [asBool](#asBool)
  - [asFloat](#asFloat)
  - [asInt](#asInt)
  - [asList](#asList)
  - [asNonEmptyArray](#asNonEmptyArray)
  - [asNonEmptyList](#asNonEmptyList)
- [Collection](#Collection)
  - [any](#any)
  - [anyOf](#anyOf)
  - [at](#at)
  - [every](#every)
  - [exists](#exists)
  - [everyOf](#everyOf)
  - [filter](#filter)
  - [filterNotNull](#filterNotNull)
  - [filterOf](#filterOf)
  - [first](#first)
  - [firstOf](#firstOf)
  - [flatMap](#flatMap)
  - [fold](#fold)
  - [group](#group)
  - [head](#head)
  - [isSequence](#isSequence)
  - [isNonEmptySequence](#isNonEmptySequence)
  - [keys](#keys)
  - [last](#last)
  - [map](#map)
  - [partition](#partition)
  - [partitionOf](#partitionOf)
  - [pluck](#pluck)
  - [pop](#pop)
  - [reduce](#reduce)
  - [reverse](#reverse)
  - [second](#second)
  - [shift](#shift)
  - [tail](#tail)
  - [unique](#unique)
  - [reindex](#reindex)
  - [zip](#zip)
- [Evidence](#Evidence)
  - [proveArray](#proveArray)
  - [proveNonEmptyArray](#proveNonEmptyArray)
  - [proveArrayOf](#proveArrayOf)
  - [proveNonEmptyArrayOf](#proveNonEmptyArrayOf)
  - [proveList](#proveList)
  - [proveNonEmptyList](#proveNonEmptyList)
  - [proveListOf](#proveListOf)
  - [proveNonEmptyListOf](#proveNonEmptyListOf)
  - [proveBool](#proveBool)
  - [proveTrue](#proveTrue)
  - [proveFalse](#proveFalse)
  - [proveString](#proveString)
  - [proveNonEmptyString](#proveNonEmptyString)
  - [proveCallableString](#proveCallableString)
  - [proveClassString](#proveClassString)
  - [proveFloat](#proveFloat)
  - [proveInt](#proveInt)
  - [proveOf](#proveOf)
- [Json](#Json)
  - [jsonDecode](#jsonDecode)
  - [jsonSearch](#jsonSearch)
- [Reflection](#Reflection)
  - [getNamedTypes](#getNamedTypes)
  - [getReflectionProperty](#getReflectionProperty)
  - [getReflectionClass](#getReflectionClass)

# Callable

  - #### compose
    
    Compose functions. Output of one function will be passed as input to
    another function
    
    ``` php
    $aToB = fn(int $a): bool => true;
    $bToC = fn(bool $b): string => (string) $b;
    $cTod = fn(string $c): float => (float) $c;
    
    /** @var callable(int): float $result */
    $result = compose($aToB, $bToC, $cTod);
    ```

  - #### partial and partialLeft
    
    Partial application from first function argument
    
    ``` php
    $callback = fn(int $a, string $b, bool $c): bool => true;
    
    /** @var callable(bool): bool $result */
    $result = partial($callback, 1, "string");
    
    /** @var callable(bool): bool $result */
    $result = partialLeft($callback, 1, "string");
    ```

  - #### partialRight
    
    Partial application from last function argument
    
    ``` php
    $callback = fn(int $a, string $b, bool $c): bool => true;
    
    /** @var callable(int): bool $result */
    $result = partialRight($callback, true, "string");
    ```

# Cast

  - #### asArray
    
    Copy collection as array
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var array<string, int> $result */
    $result = asArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### asBool
    
    Try cast boolean like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<bool> $result */
    $result = asBool('yes');
    ```

  - #### asFloat
    
    Try cast float like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<float> $result */
    $result = asFloat('1.1');
    ```

  - #### asInt
    
    Try cast integer like value. Returns None if cast is not possible
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = asInt(1);
    ```

  - #### asList
    
    Copy one or multiple collections as list
    
    ``` php
    $result = asList([1], ['prop' => 2], [3, 4]); // [1, 2, 3, 4]
    ```

  - #### asNonEmptyArray
    
    Try copy and cast collection to non-empty-array. Returns None if
    there is no first collection element
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = asNonEmptyArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### asNonEmptyList
    
    Try copy and cast collection to non-empty-list. Returns None if
    there is no first collection element
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<int>> $result */
    $result = asNonEmptyList(getCollection());
    ```

# Collection

  - #### any
    
    Returns true if there is collection element which satisfies the
    condition and false otherwise
    
    ``` php
    any(
      [1, 2, 3],
      fn(int $value): bool => $value === 2 
    ); // true
    ```

  - #### anyOf
    
    Returns true if there is collection element of given class and false
    otherwise
    
    ``` php
    anyOf([new Foo(), 2, 3], Foo::class); // true
    ```

  - #### at
    
    Find element by it's key
    
    O(1) for arrays and classes which implement ArrayAccess. O(N) for
    other cases
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo|int> $result */
    $result = at([new Foo(), 2, 3], 1);
    ```

  - #### every
    
    Returns true if every collection element satisfies the condition and
    false otherwise
    
    ``` php
    every([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 1); // false
    ```

  - #### exists
    
    Find if there is element which satisfies the condition
    
    ``` php
    exists([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 1); // true
    ```

  - #### everyOf
    
    Returns true if every collection element is of given class false
    otherwise
    
    ``` php
    everyOf([1, new Foo()], Foo::class); // false
    ```

  - #### filter
    
    Filter collection by condition. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    filter([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 2); // [1 => 2]
    ```

  - #### filterNotNull
    
    Filter not null elements. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    filterNotNull([1, null, 2]); // [0 => 1, 2 => 2]
    ```

  - #### filterOf
    
    Filter elements of given class. Preserves keys by default
    
    ``` php
    /** @var array<0|1|2, Foo> $result */
    $result = filterOf([1, new Foo(), 2], Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### first
    
    Find first element which satisfies the condition
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = first([1, 2], fn(int $v): bool => $v === 2);
    ```

  - #### firstOf
    
    Find first element of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo> $result */
    $result = firstOf([1, new Foo(1), new Foo(2)], Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### flatMap
    
    Flat map Consists of map and flatten operations
    
    ``` php
    /**
     * 1) map [1, 4] to [[0, 1, 2], [3, 4, 5]]
     * 2) flatten [[0, 1, 2], [3, 4, 5]] to [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
     */
    flatMap([1, 4], fn(int $x) => [$x - 1, $x, $x + 1]); // [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
    ```

  - #### fold
    
    Fold many elements into one
    
    ``` php
    fold(
      '', 
      ['a', 'b', 'c'], 
      fn(string $accumulator, $currentValue) => $accumulator . $currentValue
    ); 
    
    // 'abc'
    ```

  - #### group
    
    Group collection elements by key returned by function
    
    ``` php
    group( 
      [1, 2, 3], 
      fn(int $v): int => $v
    ); 
    
    // [1 => [1], 2 => [2], 3 => [3]]
    ```

  - #### head
    
    Returns collection first element
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = head([1, 2, 3]); 
    ```

  - #### isSequence
    
    Check if collection is ascending or descending integer sequence from
    given start value
    
    ``` php
    isSequence([1, 2, 3]); // false
    isSequence([0, 1, 2, 3]); // true 
    isSequence([]); // true 
    ```

  - #### isNonEmptySequence
    
    Check if collection is non empty ascending or descending integer
    sequence from given start value
    
    ``` php
    isNonEmptySequence([1, 2, 3]); // false
    isNonEmptySequence([0, 1, 2, 3]); // true
    isNonEmptySequence([]); // false 
    ```

  - #### keys
    
    Returns list of collection keys
    
    ``` php
    keys(['a' => 1, 'b' => 2]); // ['a', 'b']
    ```

  - #### last
    
    Returns last collection element and None if there is no last element
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = last([1, 2, 3]);
    ```

  - #### map
    
    Map collection values into new collection. Keys are preserved
    
    ``` php
    map([1, 2, 3], fn(int $v) => (string) $v); // ['1', '2', '3']
    ```

  - #### partition
    
    Divide collection by given conditions
    
    ``` php
    partition(
      ['a' => 1, 'b' => 2],
      fn(int $x) => $x % 2 === 0 
    );
    
    // [['b' => 2], ['a' => 1]]
    ```

  - #### partitionOf
    
    Divide collection by given classes
    
    ``` php
    /** @var array{list<Foo>, list<Bar>, list<Foo|Bar>} $result */
    $result = partitionOf(
      [new Foo(), new Bar()],
      Foo::class,
      Bar::class 
    );
    
    // [[$foo], [$bar], []]
    ```

  - #### pluck
    
    Map every collection element into given property/key value
    
    ``` php
    pluck([['a' => 1], ['a' => 2]], 'a'); // [1, 2]   
    ```

  - #### pop
    
    Pop last collection element and return tuple containing this element
    and other collection elements. If there is no last element then
    returns None
    
    ``` php
    [$head, $tail] = pop([[1, 2, 3]]); // [3, [1, 2]]   
    ```

  - #### reduce
    
    Reduce multiple elements into one. Returns None for empty collection
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<string> $option */
    $option = reduce(
      ['a', 'b', 'c'], 
      fn(string $accumulator, string $currentValue) => $accumulator . $currentValue
    ); 
    
    $option->get(); // 'abc'
    ```

  - #### reverse
    
    Copy collection in reversed order
    
    ``` php
    reverse([[1, 2, 3]]); // [3, 2, 1]   
    ```

  - #### second
    
    Returns second collection element. None if there is no second
    collection element
    
    ``` php
    second([[1, 2, 3]])->get(); // 2   
    ```

  - #### shift
    
    Shift first collection element and return tuple containing this
    element and other collection elements. If there is no first element
    then returns None
    
    ``` php
    [$head, $tail] = shift([[1, 2, 3]]); // [1, [2, 3]]   
    ```

  - #### tail
    
    Returns every collection element except first
    
    ``` php
    tail([[1, 2, 3]]); // [2, 3]   
    ```

  - #### unique
    
    Returns unique collection elements
    
    ``` php
    unique([[1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3]]); // [1, 2, 3]   
    ```

  - #### reindex
    
    Produces a new array of elements by assigning the values to keys
    generated by a transformation function (callback).
    
    ``` php
    reindex([1, 'a' => 2], fn (int $value) => $value); // [1 => 1, 2 => 2]
    ```

  - #### zip
    
    Returns a iterable collection formed from this iterable collection
    and another iterable collection by combining corresponding elements
    in pairs.
    
    If one of the two collections is longer than the other, its
    remaining elements are ignored.
    
    ``` php
    zip([1, 2, 3], ['a', 'b']); // [[1, 'a'], [2, 'b']]
    ```

# Evidence

  - #### proveArray
    
    Prove that given collection is of array type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyArray
    
    Prove that given collection is of non-empty-array type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyArray(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveArrayOf
    
    Prove that collection is of array type and every element is of given
    class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<array<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveArrayOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyArrayOf
    
    Prove that collection is of non-empty-array type and every element
    is of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-array<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyArrayOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveList
    
    Prove that given collection is of list type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<list<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveList(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyList
    
    Prove that given collection is of non-empty-list type
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<string, int>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyList(getCollection());
    ```

  - #### proveListOf
    
    Prove that collection is of array type and every element is of given
    class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<list<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveListOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyListOf
    
    Prove that collection is of non-empty-list type and every element is
    of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @psalm-return iterable<string, int> */
    function getCollection(): array { return []; }
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-list<string, Foo>> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyListOf(getCollection(), Foo::class);
    ```

  - #### proveBool
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<bool> $result */
    $result = proveBool($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveTrue
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type and it's value is true
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<true> $result */
    $result = proveTrue($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveFalse
    
    Prove that subject is of boolean type and it's value is false
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<false> $result */
    $result = proveFalse($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveString
    
    Prove that subject is of string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<string> $result */
    $result = proveString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveNonEmptyString
    
    Prove that subject is of given class
    
    ``` php
    $possiblyEmptyString = '';
    
    /** @var Option<non-empty-string> $result */
    $result = proveNonEmptyString($possiblyEmptyString);
    ```

  - #### proveCallableString
    
    Prove that subject is of callable-string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<callable-string> $result */
    $result = proveCallableString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveClassString
    
    Prove that subject is of class-string type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<class-string> $result */
    $result = proveClassString($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveFloat
    
    Prove that subject is of float type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<float> $result */
    $result = proveFloat($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveInt
    
    Prove that subject is of int type
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<int> $result */
    $result = proveInt($subject);
    ```

  - #### proveOf
    
    Prove that subject is of given class
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Option<Foo> $result */
    $result = proveOf(new Bar(), Foo::class);
    ```

# Json

  - #### jsonDecode
    
    Decode json string into associative array. Returns Left on error
    
    ``` php
    jsonDecode('{"a": [{"b": true}]}')->get(); // ['a' => [['b' => true]]] 
    ```

  - #### jsonSearch
    
    Search by JsonPath expression. Returns None if there is no data by
    given expression. @see jmespath
    
    ``` php
    jsonSearch('a[0].b', ['a' => [['b' => true]]]); // true
    jsonSearch('a[0].b', '{"a": [{"b": true}]}'); // true
    ```

# Reflection

  - #### getNamedTypes
    
    Returns property types by property reflection
    
    ``` php
    $fooProp = new ReflectionProperty(Foo::class, 'a');
    
    /** @var list<ReflectionNamedType> $result */
    $result = getNamedTypes($fooProp); 
    ```

  - #### getReflectionProperty
    
    Returns property reflection or Left on exception
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Either<ReflectionException, ReflectionProperty> $result */
    $result = getReflectionProperty(Foo::class, 'a'); 
    ```

  - #### getReflectionClass
    
    Returns class reflection or Left on exception
    
    ``` php
    /** @var Either<ReflectionException, ReflectionClass> $result */
    $result = getReflectionClass(Foo::class); 
    ```
